# Incremental Static Regeneration

## ISR

Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) allows you to update static content without rebuilding your entire site. It provides a middle ground between Static Site Generation (SSG)—which is fast but lacks freshness—and Server-Side Rendering (SSR)—which is fresh but slower.

ISR is an extension to SSG. In Next.js, if we implement SSG for a page, it will render at build time and will never re-render automatically until we rebuild the page again. If the page is dynamic and its content changes frequently, we can use ISR to update the content without rebuilding the page.

To implement ISR, we have to export another variable `revalidate` and set it to the number of seconds after which ISR should be triggered. By default, its value is false which means ISR is not enabled. The content will not be regenerated by the server but it will be regenerated when the page is visited after the specified number of seconds. Without ISR, the page will contain data from the last build time. With ISR, the server generates the page as soon as user refreshes the page because it doesn't want user to wait and will serve the page as per last refreshed time. We should use revalidate when the data of the page changes frequently and we don't want to rebuild the page again.

```js
export const revalidate = 5;
```

We can also use revalidate at fetch to update the content without rebuilding the page. to do this, we have to pass `next: { revalidate: 5 }` as a object parameter to the fetch function.

```js
const Blog = async ({ params }) => {
  const { blogId } = await params;
  console.log(blogId);
  const res = await fetch("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts/1", {
    next: { revalidate: 10 },
  });
  const data = await res.json();
  console.log(data)
  return (...);
```

## Dynamically Rendering Static Pages

By default, rendering depends on the route, if our route is dynamic then it will be dynamically rendered and if our route is static then it will be statically rendered but we can also render static pages dynamically.

```js
export const dynamic = "force-dynamic";
```

Another way to make a page dynamic is by using `searchParams` from props which is a URLSearchParams object that contains the query parameters of the current URL.

```js
const Services = async ({ searchParams }) => {
  await searchParams;
  return (...);
```

Another way to make a page dynamic is by using `cookies` from `next/headers` which is a Headers object that contains the cookies of the current request.

```js
import { cookies } from "next/headers";

const Services = async () => {
  const myCookies = await cookies();
  return (...);
```

Whenever a components uses `Request-time APIs` - `cookies()`, `headers()`, `searchParams()`, and `draftMode()`, it becomes dynamic. By default, the value of `dynamic` is `auto` which means it automatically detects if the component uses `Request-time APIs` or not. If the component uses `Request-time APIs`, it will be dynamically rendered, otherwise it will be statically rendered. If we set it to `force-dynamic`, then it will be dynamically rendered even if the component doesn't use `Request-time APIs`. If we set it to `force-static`, then it will be statically rendered even if the component uses `Request-time APIs`. Request-time APIs will then return empty values. If we set it to `error`, then it will throw an error if the component uses `Request-time APIs`.
